# pH-Mouse
## pH-Mouse, or Probability Heat Mouse is a graphical representation for maze traversal probabilities.  
## Created by Tanner Lee with Julia 1.0 leveraging Luxor and ColorSchemes

### What is pH-Mouse?  
pH-Mouse is an overly complicated solution to a very simple programming assignment.  The assignment was to represent a mouse in a maze searching for cheese. This was supposed to be modeled with a probability matrix given an initial input vector.  To accomplish this with a Julia terminal is rather remedial, so to entertain myself and to further my knowledge of Julia I created pH-Mouse.  pH-Mouse (or Probability Heat Mouse or pHM) is a tool that takes an input of text maze and a starting location to create a .gif of the maze with a probability heatmap imposed over the top.  The heatmap is generated by observing the probability matrix at each iteration and assigning a specific color to its cell based on its relative "heat".  

### How to use pH-Mouse
Generating heatmaps with pH-Mouse is rather straightforward.  The following steps offer a walkthrough of the process:  
1. Create an Input File
  - An input file is simply a text based representation of the maze you'll like to represent.  
  - Rooms are separated by a space
  - Each room should be given as a string 
    - #P represents a pathway
    - #W represents a wall
    - #C represents the "cheese" or end-goal of the maze
  - Two example inputs are provided with the repository 
2. Install Julia Packages
  - pH-Mouse requires three different julia packages to function correctly
    - Luxor
    - Colors
    - ColorSchemes
   - Install each package by entering the following command in a Julia terminal
    - `] add Luxor, Colors, ColorSchemes`
4. Install FFmpeg
  - pH-Mouse requires ffmpeg to compile its images into a .gif file
  - FFmpeg installation is explained extremely well by [adaptlearning](https://github.com/adaptlearning/adapt_authoring/wiki/Installing-FFmpeg)
3. Execute pH-Mouse
  - pH-Mouse can be executed by Julia from the terminal with the following command:
    - `julia pHM.jl`
    - Note: Julia must be added to your PATH enviroment variable for this to function properly
4. Set Runtime Preferences
  - When launching pH-Mouse, you'll first be asked to enter a series of preferences for execution
  - These preferences are as follows:
    - `Which input number would you like to load?`
      - This specifies which input file to use
      - `1` would specify input1.phm for the simulation
    - `How many iterations would you like to run?`
      - This specifies how many times the probability matrix should be evaluated
      - `250` would specify 250 multiplications of the matrix
    - `Which room would you like to start in?`
      - This specifies which room the simulation should pass as an input to the matrix
      - `5` would specify room 5P as the starting room
    - `Enter an intensity for the heatmap {1-10}`
      - This specifies the intensity of the colors used by the simulation
      - For larger matrices, higher values will make the iterations easier to see
      - `10` would specify a very bright, intense heatmap

